# SMU: MATLAB Package for Structural Model Updating

This package provides example MATLAB code and data for finite element model updating of structures. The code offers selection of different updating formulations and optimization algorithms. 

## Introduction

Field dynamic testing on an as-built structure usually provides modal properties that are different from these generated by a finite element (FE) model. To update the FE model parameters, optimization problems can be formulated to minimize the difference between experimental and simulated modal properties. Various FE model parameters can be selected as optimization variables for model updating, such as the elastic moduli of structural members, as well as stiffness values of support springs.

This software package for FE model updating offers three model updating formulations, namely (1) the MAC (modal assurance criteria) value formulation, (2) the eigenvector difference formulation, and (3) the modal dynamic residual formulation. For each updating formulation, analytical Jacobian derivative of the objective function is implemented. To find the optimal solution of the formulated optimization problem, the package supports various optimization algorithms available in MATLAB optimization toolbox, such as the Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm, the trust-region-reflective algorithms, and the interior point method, and so on. Randomly generated starting values of the optimization variables can be adopted to increase the chance of finding global minimum of the optimization problem. Finally, the MATLAB code contains several structural examples to evaluate the model updating formulations and optimization algorithms.


## Contents

"\SMU"
The folder contains shared MATLAB routines for finite element model updating. This folder should be added into MATLAB path prior to running the example model updating code of the two example structures.

"Examples\ConcreteBuildingFrame"
The folder contains example code and data for the updating of a concrete building frame model.

"Examples\SteelPedestrianBridge"
The folder contains example code and data for the updating of a steel pedestrian bridge model.

"Examples\FourStoryStructure\"
The folder contains example code and data for the updating of a four story shear structure model.

"Examples\EighteenStoryStructure\"
The folder contains example code and data for the updating of a eighteen story shear structure model.

## Companion Monograph
Y. Otsuki, P. Lander, X. Dong, Y. Wang. (2022). ["Formulation and application of SMU - an open-source MATLAB package for structural model updating."](https://github.com/ywang-structures/Structural-Model-Updating/blob/master/Formulation%20and%20application%20of%20SMU%20%E2%80%93%20an%20open-source%20MATLAB%20package%20for%20structural%20model%20updating.pdf) Advances in Structural Engineering, 25(4): 698-715.

## Citing SMU
Y. Wang, X. Dong, D. Li, and Y. Otsuki. SMU: MATLAB Package for Structural Model Updating, version 1.2. https://github.com/ywang-structures/Structural-Model-Updating, September 2019.

## Acknowledgment
This research was partially funded by the National Science Foundation (CMMI-1150700 and CMMI-1634483). Any opinions, findings, and conclusions expressed in this publication are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the view of the sponsors.

## Contact

Yang Wang, Ph.D.\
Professor\
School of Civil and Environmental Engineering &\
School of Electrical and Computer Engineering\
Georgia Institute of Technology\
790 Atlantic Dr NW, Atlanta, GA 30332-0355\
E-mail: yang.wang@ce.gatech.edu\
Webpage: http://wang.ce.gatech.edu
